New Group Chat/Identity Concepts for V3 Beta (#747)
xmtp/xmtp-dot-org: docs/v3/group-chat.md

# Group Chat

## Summary

* XMTP V3 is introducing Group Chat based on the MLS [specification](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9420.html).

> * A group can be anywhere from 1 person to 20,000.

Reviewer: @insipx whenever we figure out the limit we should update this number.

Reviewer 2: Added suggestion below

> * A group can be anywhere from 1 person to 20,000.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A group can be anywhere from 1 person to 400.
```

Based on the benchmarks, 400 feels like a good place to start, and will only go up from there

* Groups can have administrators with special permissions. Those permissions include:
  * Add or remove group members.

>   * Mute group members.

Reviewer: I don't think there is any admin ability to mute members for everyone. Members can be "muted" on a individual bases but not for everyone else.

Author: That seems like an odd choice for large groups.  To clarify: a user can mute a user from their own feed, but administrators cannot mute group members?  You just have to straight to removal?

Reviewer: Correct. @neekolas or @cameronvoell have we thought about this feature for groups? Technically speaking I'm not sure how we would even do that.

Author: We discussed it one of the meetings but that doesn't mean we implemented it.  It's just super common when you want a one-to-many discussion or to keep large public chats civil.

Reviewer: We had a conversation about this with the MLS team today. Seems like this is definitely something we will eventually want but not something we will currently support. Lets remove it from the docs for now.

Author: No worries, I removed it yesterday so it's gone from the current build.

  * Set a group title or other metadata.

>   * Delete messages.

Reviewer: No way to delete messages.

>   * Pin messages.

Reviewer: No way to pin messages

  * Promote members to admins or demote admins.

>   * Update permissions policies.

Reviewer: @cameronvoell mind validating the permissions part of this.

  * Messages are encrypted so only the installation can decrypt them. Apps do not share the same keys.
  * A user can prompt an existing app to send [message history](./message-history.md) to a newly registered app.
* Apps can find out what groups a user is part of through the *conversations protocol*.
  * Apps can list existing groups.
  * Apps can poll or stream for new group invitations.
* Apps can manage group messages through the *group protocol*.
  * Apps can poll for updated group messages, or subscribe to them via streaming.
  * Apps use the group protocol to add and remove members.
  * Apps use the group protocol to update group metadata.
* Group chat messages have a delivery status of Published, Unpublished, or Failed.
  * Sent messages are added to the local database as Unpublished.
  * List functions will show Unpublished messages by default. There is a parameter to filter on status.
  * Messages that are not sent after 3 attempts are set to Failed.
  * Message status will not change from Unpublished to Published without calling sync().
* Apps can use push messages for group chats using Firebase Cloud Messaging.

## Group Sizes

> Group sizes can range from 1 to 20,000.  XMTP excepts most groups will fall into one of two profiles: The small group where everyone knows each other (e.g. texting), and large groups of relative strangers (e.g. Discord).  Small groups are your typical group chat - the group size is not large enough to require a lot of permissions, or moderation.  Large groups often start with restricted permission and more moderation to make sure the group is not too noisy for its intended purpose.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Group sizes can range from 1 to 400.  XMTP excepts most groups will fall into one of two profiles: The small group where everyone knows each other (e.g. texting), and large groups of relative strangers (e.g. Discord).  Small groups are your typical group chat - the group size is not large enough to require a lot of permissions, or moderation.  Large groups often start with restricted permission and more moderation to make sure the group is not too noisy for its intended purpose.
```

In some cases, LibXMTP will perform a sync automatically. This currently includes calls to add/remove members to a group or using the stream functions. Outside of those methods, apps can call `sync()` when they choose in order to efficiently manage network traffic.

## Group Protocol

The group protocol contains methods specific to individual groups, identified by their `group_id`. These methods allow a user to communicate with the group. Each SDK has their own version of this protocol, using the underlying implementation in [LibXMTP](https://github.com/xmtp/libxmtp).

| Method | Description |
| ---- | ---- |
| send | Send a message to this group. Requires sync. |
| sync | Query for new messages, proposals, and commits, and send unpublished messages related to this group. |
| find_messages | Query the database for stored messages, with filters for time frame and limit. Requires sync.|

> | list_members | A list including the account address and installation id of each member. Requires sync. |

Reviewer: The list includes the inbox id and a list of account addresses associated with that inboxId

| add_members | Add multiple group members by account address. Syncs automatically.|

> | remove_members | Remove multiple group members by account address. Syncs automatically.|

Reviewer: We just added two new methods

`add_members_by_inbox_id`
`remove_members_by_inbox_id`

| stream | Stream messages to a callback function. Syncs automatically.|
| created_at_ns | Group creation time. |
| is_active | Whether the group is active. Requires sync. |

> | added_by_address | The address of the group member who added this user to the group. |

Reviewer: this is now
```suggestion
| added_by_inbox_id | The inboxId of the group member who added this user to the group. |
```

| group_metadata | Group metadata, such as group title and permissions. Requires sync.|

### Delivery Status

When a message is sent, it is stored in the local database with a status of `Unpublished`. `find_messages()` will display unpublished messages by default unless you filter on `DeliveryStatus`. Unpublished messages can be displayed to the user but they should be marked as not yet sent in the app UI.

When the app calls `sync()`, LibXMTP will make three attempts to automatically send the message to the network. If all three attempts fail, the message status will be marked as `Failed`. If it succeeds, it will be marked as `Published`.

## Spam Protection

> To prevent unwanted contacts, the app should apply the existing [Universal allow/block Preferences](../build/user-consent.md) to group chats. The Group protocol provides the `added_by_address` method to find out who has initiated the user into a group chat. Apps can compare this address using the standard `isAllowed()` or `isDenied()` functions on the contacts to determine how and whether the group should be listed, and how and whether messages are displayed, based on the design of the app and the user's settings.

Reviewer: No longer find by address but instead `added_by_inbox_id` and we have new consent that checks if the inbox Id is allowed or denied. See https://github.com/xmtp/xmtp-android/pull/244
